Update bot-accounts.rst (#4185)
mattermost/docs: source/developer/bot-accounts.rst

Bot Accounts
========================================

Use Bot accounts to integrate with Mattermost through `plugins <https://developers.mattermost.com/extend/plugins/>`_ or the `Mattermost RESTful API <https://api.mattermost.com>`_. Bot accounts access the RESTful API on behalf of a bot through the use of the :doc:`personal access tokens feature <personal-access-tokens>`.

Bot accounts are just like user accounts, except they:

  - Can't be logged into.
  - Can't be used to create other bot accounts.

>   - Don't count as a registered user and therefore don't count towards the total users for an Enterprise Edition license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Don't count as a registered user and therefore don't count towards the total number of users for an Enterprise Edition license.
```

>   - Don't count as a registered user and therefore don't count towards the total users for an Enterprise Edition license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Don't count as registered users and therefore don't count towards the total users for an Enterprise Edition license.
```

Additional benefits include:

>   - Bot accounts can be enabled to post to any channel in the system by System Admins, including a private team, private channel or a Direct Message channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - System Admins can enable Bot accounts to post to any channel in the system, including private teams, private channels, or Direct Message channels.
```

  - Integrations created by a user and tied to a bot account no longer break if the user leaves the company.
  - Once created, bot accounts behave just like regular user accounts and can be added to teams and channels similar to users.
  - Bot accounts are a safer way to integrate with Mattermost through the RESTful API and Plugin API because there is no need to manage shared logins with these accounts.

>   - ``BOT`` tag is used everywhere in the UI where bot accounts are referenced, including messages and user lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A ``BOT`` tag is used throughout Mattermost where bot accounts are referenced, including messages and user lists.
```

Note that currently:

>   - Bot accounts can only be created or managed by plugins or System Admins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Only System Admins or plugins can create or manage Bot accounts.
```

>   - Bot accounts cannot be assigned to webhooks or slash commands. These must still be created by a user account.

Reviewer: On initial read, these two sentences seem to be describing different functions. The first sentence is about assigning bot accounts to webhooks or slash commands, and the second sentence is about creating webhooks or slash commands.

>   - Service accounts without an email address pulled from LDAP or SAML systems in Enterprise Edition is not yet supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In Mattermost Enterprise Edition, service accounts without an email address pulled from LDAP or SAML systems are not yet supported.
```

Bot Accounts
========================================

Use Bot accounts to integrate with Mattermost through `plugins <https://developers.mattermost.com/extend/plugins/>`_ or the `Mattermost RESTful API <https://api.mattermost.com>`_. Bot accounts access the RESTful API on behalf of a bot through the use of the :doc:`personal access tokens feature <personal-access-tokens>`.

Bot accounts are just like user accounts, except they:

  - Can't be logged into.
  - Can't be used to create other bot accounts.
  - Don't count as a registered user and therefore don't count towards the total number of users for an Enterprise Edition license.

Additional benefits include:

>   - System Admins can enable Bot accounts to post to any channel in the system, including private teams, private channels, or Direct Message channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - System Administrators can enable Bot accounts to post to any channel in the system, including private teams, private channels, or Direct Message channels.
```

  - Integrations created by a user and tied to a bot account no longer break if the user leaves the company.
  - Once created, bot accounts behave just like regular user accounts and can be added to teams and channels similar to users.
  - Bot accounts are a safer way to integrate with Mattermost through the RESTful API and Plugin API because there is no need to manage shared logins with these accounts.
  - A ``BOT`` tag is used throughout Mattermost where bot accounts are referenced, including messages and user lists.

Note that currently:

  - Only System Admins or plugins can create or manage Bot accounts.

>   - Bot accounts cannot be assigned to webhooks or slash commands. These must still be created by a user account.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Webhooks and slash commands must be configured by a user account.
```

>   - Bot accounts cannot be assigned to webhooks or slash commands. These must still be created by a user account.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Webhooks and slash commands can only be created and configured by a user account.
```

>   - Only System Admins or plugins can create or manage Bot accounts.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Only System Admins or plugins can create or manage bot accounts.
```

>   - Only System Admins or plugins can create or manage bot accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Only System Administrators or plugins can create or manage bot accounts.
```

>   - Webhooks and slash commands must be configured by a user account.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Webhooks and slash commands can only be created and configured by a user account.
```

  :local:

Configuration Settings
----------------------

By default, plugins can create and manage bot accounts. To enable bot account creation through the user interface or the RESTful API:

1. Go to **System Console > Integrations > Bot Accounts**.
2. Set **Enable Bot Account Creation** to ``true``.

> Once set, System Admin can create bot accounts for integrations using the **Integrations > Bot Accounts** link in the description provided.

Reviewer: What's our standard for "System Administrators" versus "System Admins" in product documentation?

A suggestion to consider: Write out "System Administrator/s" fully for the first reference on a given page, and then use "System Admin/s" thereafter. Thoughts?

Author: We refer to System Admins relatively consistently throughout the docs (or more consistently than not). There are instances that still need to be changed, but the standard is "System Admin" which I realize is at odds with the UI which uses "Administrator" (but I believe that's the only glaring outlier).

Reviewer: Thanks, @justinegeffen!

Bot Account Creation
--------------------

Below are different ways to create bot accounts. After the bot account is created, make sure to:

1. Copy the generated bot access token for your integration.
2. Add the bot account to teams and channels you want it to interact in.

User Interface (UI)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Go to **Main Menu > Integrations > Bot Accounts**.
2. Select **Add Bot Account**.

> 3. Set the **Username** of the bot. The username must begin with a letter, and contain between 3 and 22 lowercase characters made up of numbers, letters, and the symbols ".", "-", and "_".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Set the **Username** of the bot. The username must begin with a letter, and contain between 3 and 22 lowercase characters made up of numbers, letters, and symbols including ".", "-", or "_".
```

Reviewer: I'm making an assumption here that bot usernames aren't required to include all supported symbols. If they are required to have all 3 supported symbols, then this suggestion is invalid.

Author: I agree - based on the bot names I've seen your suggestion is correct.

> 4. (Optional) Upload an image for the **Bot Icon**. This will be used as the profile image of the bot throughout Mattermost.

Reviewer: Is "Bot Icon" what displays in the UI? I ask because typically when referring to icons and UI options, we bold the name of the option itself, and leave the type of UI control unbolded and lowercase.

Author: **Bot Icon** is the name of the UI entity related to this action. It's a bit less clear-cut than usual:
<img width="357" alt="Screen Shot 2021-01-24 at 22 27 24" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4223530/105642598-5689b180-5e93-11eb-9ad2-a3d7187050a6.png">

5. (Optional) Set a **Display Name** and **Description**.

> 6. (Optional) Choose what role the bot should have. Defaults to **Member**. If you assign **System Admin**, the bot will have access to write in and read any Public channels, Private channels and Direct Messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. (Optional) Choose what role the bot should have. Defaults to **Member**. If you assign **System Admin**, the bot will have access to write in and read any Public channels, Private channels, and Direct Messages.
```

> 7. (Optional) Select additional permissions for the account. Enable the bot to post to all Mattermost channels, or all Mattermost Public channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. (Optional) Select additional permissions for the account. Enable the bot to post to all Mattermost channels, or post to all Mattermost Public channels.
```

> 6. (Optional) Choose what role the bot should have. Defaults to **Member**. If you assign **System Admin**, the bot will have access to write in and read any Public channels, Private channels, and Direct Messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. (Optional) Choose what role the bot should have. Defaults to **Member**. If you assign **System Admin**, the bot will have read and write access for any Public channels, Private channels, and Direct Messages.
```

RESTful API
^^^^^^^^^^^

> Use the RESTful API ``POST /bots`` to create a bot. Must have permissions to create bots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the RESTful API ``POST /bots`` to create a bot. You must have permissions to create bots.
```

> Bot accounts which were converted from user accounts will have their authentication data cleared if they were email/password accounts. Those synced from LDAP/SAML will not have their authentication data cleared so that LDAP/SAML sync performs correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bot accounts which were converted from user accounts will have their authentication data cleared if they were email/password accounts. Those synchronized from LDAP/SAML will not have their authentication data cleared so that LDAP/SAML synchronization performs correctly.
```

> Bot accounts which were converted from user accounts will have their authentication data cleared if they were email/password accounts. Those synced from LDAP/SAML will not have their authentication data cleared so that LDAP/SAML sync performs correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bot accounts which were converted from user accounts will have their authentication data cleared if they were email/password accounts. Those synchronized from LDAP/SAML will not have their authentication data cleared so that LDAP/SAML synchronization performs correctly.
```

How can I quickly test if my bot account is working?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Add the bot to a team and channel you belong to, then use the following curl command to post with the bot:

.. code-block:: text

  curl -i -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"channel_id":"<channel-id>", "message":"This is a message from a bot", "props":{"attachments": [{"pretext": "Look some text","text": "This is text"}]}}' -H 'Authorization: Bearer <bot-access-token>' <mattermost-url>/api/v4/posts

> Replacing the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the following parameters:
```

Yes. By default, bot accounts can update their own posts.

If you find yourself unable to edit posts as a bot, check the following:

1. Instead of using a slash command to respond directly, use an an API call for the initial interaction with a user to enable message edits.
2. If your system is using `advanced permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/deployment/advanced-permissions.html>`_, then post edits could be disabled for users.

> If neither of the above help resolve your concern, you also have the option to choose what role the bot account has. If System Admin is chosen, then they can update any posts in the system, along with other System Admin permissions. Note that giving the System Admin role to a bot account enables them with other System Admin privileges so this should be done with care.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If neither of the above help resolve your issue, you also have the option to choose what role the bot account has. If System Admin is chosen, then the bot can update any posts in the system. Note that giving the System Admin role to a bot account enables the bot with other System Admin privileges so this should be done with care.
```

> If AD/LDAP or SAML sync is enabled, do bot accounts need to have an associated email address in AD/LDAP or SAML?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If AD/LDAP or SAML synchronization is enabled, do bot accounts need to have an associated email address in AD/LDAP or SAML?
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> When AD/LDAP or SAML sync is enabled, you can create bot accounts using the steps outlined above. These bot accounts won't require an email address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When AD/LDAP or SAML synchronization is enabled, you can create bot accounts using the steps outlined above. These bot accounts won't require an email address.
```
